I don't know if that was uncomfortable
cuz I just unragged it myself. Anyway,
how frustrating. Oh,
hi.
What's that?
How are you?
I'm good.
Glad you're here.
I need some unrackcking for a heavy
bench press.
What are we doing?
So, we we have two options.
Yeah.
Stick to the plan or don't stick to the
plan.
What's the plan?
195 for three.
Oh [__] All right. Good one.
Yeah. You got to say, what's the not
plan?
Yeah.
You know what I mean? Isn't that the
logical uh sequence of that
conversation? Or 195 is not a number.
204.
Same.
Triple.
Yeah. I've already done a double. But
now I'll tell you what. This is riding
on a number of things. Dy, my shoulder
is scaring me lately and now it's just
been feeling a little bit funny. If I
get it in the line perfectly, we're on.
So, you got a little bit of pressure,
Dy.
Yeah, you can handle the pressure.
Yeah. So, I would like an unrackck from
early on. So, I just did 80 kg
and um it felt uncomfortable
unrackcking.
[Music]
Let's see what you feel. But usually
when I get a good unrackck, it doesn't
feel uncomfortable cuz you're placing it
right in the spot.
Anyway, so my my team at YouTube, that's
you guys. I guess you're my team. Mhm.
Today's Today's Arm day.
But before I do arms, I'm going to do a
top set on my bench. And if you were
eavesdropping on that conversation I
just had with Denny, my plan is 195 for
three. Uh, and that's based on week one
was 190 for triples. Sorry, 185 for
triples. Last week I did 190 for triple.
So we're going up in 5 kg increments.
This week it's supposed to be 195 and
then next week it's 200.
But it's just what I do when I get to
funny numbers like that. 195 is just a
non-number. Don't you agree? Um, and I'm
so close to the 200 and I want the 200.
So, I could either be patient and hit
what's due or
you know what that means.
Yeah, that means that means yolo. That
means yolo. So, anyway, let's see. Yeah,
that was nice, didn't you, J?
That was way better. Thank you. I didn't
even feel it. I didn't feel it.
I didn't even feel it. That's how it
should be. That's how it should be. And
it'll get back to there where I am fine.
But for now, we just have to deal with
what we got, which is a silly shoulder.
Silly shoulder. I'll tell you what I
think the shoulder is. I think it's one
of my I think it's Terry's minor or
infraspanatus. I can feel it like
trigger pointy like in the back here,
the back of my shoulder blades. So,
that's one of my rotator cuff muscles.
the external rotators and it's just like
when I press on it here it's just like
oh big trigger point
very tender very painful to touch but if
the line is right
then we're on then we're on
Beautiful unreach. I don't know if you
saw a spot in there where it sped up.
Yeah.
[__] That was my shoulder just given
out. Just went.
I'm just hitting the exact muscle that I
think is problematic. So, this is
external rotation with a very light
weight. And I just want to see if I warm
that up feels any different because I do
believe that's external rotation. That's
not the whole rotator cuff. It's just
two of those muscles that externally
rotate. That's where I'm feeling its
trigger points. Infraspanatus or Terry's
minor. So that's a very very lightweight
external rotation exercise. I'm just
going to see if warming that up in
between makes it feel better. All right,
140. So we go up in 20s. We'll do one
rep for each weight until I get to the
top weight and then we'll see.
[Music]
Perfect.
Sideways.
Yeah, I felt the sideways action,
huh?
Yeah. But there was no pain.
There was no pain. Good. That was
probably the went sideways cuz I was
guarding probably.
Yeah. I feel like we did that last week,
too.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I do that a lot of times
when I'm when I'm guarding,
but it's okay.
So, this is what we do is we set up the
recorder and I calibrate
every set. I'm going to calibrate.
Thank you.
We also changed the configuration.
Yeah, it was a slight wardrobe
malfunction. So, we have the option of
going four blues and a green
or two reds and two blues. Um, I like a
bit of a red plate in the mix. The red
just looks nicer.
Yeah. So, you know, here's a question
for you guys. Men have a favorite color
and it's one of two. Blue or red? Blue
or red? Well, mine is red.
Red because red is
Yeah. But some people's favorite color
is blue. Not me. I'm just not a blue
person. So, some people when they do
their everything configurations, it's
like, I love the blue, but not me. I
like the red. What do you think? Are you
a red or a blue? And if you're neither,
then put it in the comments. Yeah. I
just think if you're if you're neither
of those, you're just trying to be
contrarian for the sake of being
contrarian. But deep down, you know,
it's either red or blue.
I say majority is going to vote red.
Well, then you're in good company.
Yeah.
Because I'm a red person. What about
you? Like as girls, is it red or blue?
It's red. Unless it's red.
Okay. Right.
Unless
No. No. Not out of those two. Out of all
colors.
Is red like favorite color? Quick, hurry
up.
Yeah, I wear black.
Red. Okay. Not what you wear. Like I
don't really wear I wear black.
No, my favorite color is turquoise.
It's blue.
It's not really
It's a shade of blue.
[Music]
Okay.
All righty.
[Applause]
[Music]
good.
I mean, they look strong.
Take your time with me. Like that that
B. I know it bumped, but it didn't
matter.
Yeah,
it bumped, but it didn't matter. Okay,
just stay with me. Just stay with me.
And it doesn't matter.
As long as it's not pulling you off.
No, it's not.
I just feel like it's taking more from
this side.
Which side? Which side?
Left side.
Really?
I think you're Yeah. The right side.
Sore shoulder. Yeah. The right one.
Yeah.
Anyway, like I feel like as long as I
got that, then it's just That was uh
That was easy. That was easy.
Just stay with me. Just keep on. So,
this is uh the evolution of me being
unrackcked is I used to say, "Don't take
a lot of the weight. Let me do it
because I need to feel it in my hands,
but now I'm very different. I like as
much weight being taken off as possible,
but not so much that it takes my
shoulder blades out of position." So,
Dy, bit of a background on Dy. She may
not be big, but she's pretty strong,
actually. Um,
she can deadlift 160 kg, believe it or
not. But I got the video footage to
prove it. And I've also got the video
footage to prove that once I failed 200
kg, uh I went for a set of two. I got
the first rep, missed the second, it was
on its way down. And she stepped in and
just went and she just picked it up. So
if you were wondering what's this little
one going to do about it, she's going to
help is what she's going to do. Quite a
lot, as a matter of fact. But anyway,
not today.
Anyway,
no, she's not going to help. She's going
to help with the unrackck. But actually,
that's what I'm I'm sure you feel it.
You're taking off a lot of the weight
for the unrackck. But I appreciate that.
You're welcome.
That's what I need. That's what I need
for today to keep me. So, so all it is
is this position here for my shoulder.
No pain, but it's kind of like when it's
when it's up and or you know, when it's
out of that groove, it's uncomfortable.
So, from back here, if I have to exert
force from back here, that's where it's
hurting. That's probably why I'm not
unrackckracking very strong from from
back here.
So, just stay with me for a bit longer.
Stay slow. Take as much weight as
possible. And then and then here. I got
it.
180.
180 is next.
This is my last warm up.
[__] it's a scary unwrack, isn't it?
It is.
I know. I feel it and I know you feel
it.
That time I did.
Yeah. But the up phase was no no
problem.
The unrackck I felt like click
and on the way down. It's just like
please don't. Please don't. Please
don't. Please don't.
Oh yeah.
How strange. What a [__] strange What
a strange shoulder I have.
On the anious side.
Yeah, same.
Same. I'm I'm a lot on the anxious side.
I I can tell that we're both kind of
[__] guarding.
But the way up is uh strong.
Take a little bit more off here.
Yeah, it's good. So, what I need to do
is even stand back. Sorry. So, I come
slide it a little bit further back. We
just need to um work a little bit more
for the unrackck. So, this is going to
be 20 kilos more. Sorry, Denny. You
didn't know that it was deadlift, but
now you do.
[Music]
That was easy, but [__]
A little bit off line. I know I'm strong
enough for it. I'm going to do another
set.
Didn't hurt at all with the unrackck,
but I definitely
feel that the nerves got the better of
me. Yeah,
I feel that the line was off. Let's
zoom.
That was much better than myself.
Yeah, was the best.
Yeah, it was more comfortable for sure.
You were just rocking around.
Rocking around.
It was a good double. It's been a while
since I've done a double that clean.
Look, if I get two by two, then that's a
good day.
Yeah, we have to always like when we're
at the heavy end of these days, we have
to be able to know what to do if it
doesn't go to plan.
Yeah. It was like if you look at the
first rep, it's like the unrackck was
fine, but then watch as I'm coming down.
Look at my body.
I'm just going
shaking around. That can't happen when
you're trying to bench press a heavy
weight. You got to you got to be rock
solid. You can't shoot a cannon from a
canoe.
I'm going to try again.
I'm going to give myself 8 minutes rest.
Like I don't feel that fatigue me. I
don't feel that fatigue. A lot of the
times when I push, I come out, I'm like,
whoa, I'm done. But that one, I feel
like that was a warm-up set.
I got to get the line perfectly. If I
get the line perfectly, I'll get three
reps on that.
[Applause]
I hope I do.
Too much nerves. It's too much anxiety.
Like that was easy. I'm just like ah too
much noise in my head.
Yeah. Damn,
that did not feel hard.
That actually looked really good.
That did not feel hard.
Well, I asked for three reps on 200,
didn't I?
So,
we succeeded.
Not exactly how I wanted it, but anyway.
Um, that's how it goes. Heavy lifting is
stressful. I used to when I was younger
just not give a [__] Just [__] bang
it and just I never used to think like
that. But I guess I've had a few
injuries recently where you got to think
like that. Um if I do the slightest bit
wrong with a weight like that, it could
very easily injure something. But either
way, nothing hurt. There was no injury,
none of that stuff. Just got to get my
mind right. Uh but it's okay. The goal
is not 200 for reps. The goal is 220. Uh
and I do still think that I'm on track
for that. I did a 210 a couple of weeks
ago. I think 210 would have come up
easily today if I did that for sure. Um,
so that wasn't an unsuccessful day. I
just didn't hit the the big number that
I had planned. But still, it's good. So
now, um, I might just do one back down
set and then I'm going to do arms. So no
stress when we do arms.
What do you think the back?
Maybe 170.
Eight. Just one set of eight. Yeah.
Which
is good.
Um, very achievable.
Yeah.
And that's that's where my program is
meant to have me this weekend is eight
on 170,
which I've done number of times, but I
want to do it easily. So, that's what
I'll do. Let's go, bro.
Ah, could have done nine.
Could have done nine, bro.
I know. [__]
No, you didn't do the wrong thing. I was
like, do I?
Anyway, whatever. Thanks. Thanks,
Do you think it's okay to train like
biceps every session, arms every
session?
You can train any muscle every session.
You know, the ultimate formula for
building a muscle is the stimulation and
then there's the recovery, right? So, or
the stimulus and the recovery. So if
you're not giving enough recovery, then
it's just not going to grow. Um I don't
think it's necessary. I think you could
probably go through phases where you
specialize. So there are there is
research that shows there was a study on
quadriceps where they did 52 sets per
week on quadriceps and you know had
multiple groups. One was doing the
highest amount was 52. Then there was a
group with less and another group with
even less than that. I don't know the
exact numbers, but the group with 52
sets saw the most muscle gains. Now,
that doesn't mean 52 sets is what you
should be doing, but what it does show
is that it is possible to specialize.
Like, if you try to do 52 sets on every
muscle group every week, you don't have
time to do it on every muscle group per
week. That's all you do is spend time
spend the whole day in the gym every
single day because there's a lot of
muscle groups. And the study was just
done on quadriceps, right? But it does
tell me that if you wanted to specialize
on a specific lift or a specific muscle
group that you can do a phase of high
volume, but it's just not practical to
just do all year round. So you can do it
every day. It's a smaller muscle group
and it is a lot easier to recover.
But I think
once or twice a week is fine. You know,
this is direct bicep work and direct
tricep work that we're talking about.
Typically, I'd like to go a little bit
heavier, but my shoulder is just not
super comfortable with this position.
So, we're going to see how this feels.
Okay, no pain.
Um, probably a bit too light, so I'm
going to have to go heavier. Uh, that's
fine. So, I did 15 reps, but when it
comes to muscle building, you really
want to take it pretty close to failish.
You don't have to take it all the way to
fail. But an exercise like bicep curl,
tricep extension. The reason why you
don't take everything to fail is because
it's fatiguing. There's risk of injury.
And when I say fatigue, it's hard to
recover from. So the fatigue can
interfere with good sessions on the
other days. But when it comes to small
muscle groups like the arms, that's not
a huge problem. So taking those
exercises to failure is probably what I
do recommend. Right? All right. So, if
all you're doing is like big compound
movements like squats and bench presses
and deadlifts, I don't recommend taking
those movements to failure because if
you're strong enough, breaking down
technique or going to failure on those
movements can increase the risk of
injury if you're strong enough. Most
people aren't strong enough for it
actually to injure yourself. So, failing
on a bench press, if you're doing like
less than your body weight, you're
probably not going to tear a pec. But,
if you're going to double body weight,
which is what I was just doing, uh you
can really uh tear something and break
something. So, context matters when it
comes to going to failure. A lot of
people say things like, "Don't go to
failure cuz it increases the risk of
injury." Not so fast. You need to be
strong enough to be lifting heavy enough
to actually be able to cause an injury.
But either way, with these, I'm not
lifting heavy enough. So, for my arm
exercises, you know, choose rep ranges
that are appropriate. 15 reps. If it's
more than 15 reps, of course, it can
build muscle, but that's too much.
That's too much. So, that set doesn't
count. That was a warm-up. I was hoping
that 15 would be hard, but it wasn't
hard enough to really be hugely
stimulating. So, I need to go heavier.
But what I'm going to be doing is going
between biceps and triceps. So that was
a tricep exercise. That's my favorite.
There's lots of different tricep
exercise. And to be honest with you,
they don't really hit different parts of
the triceps, right? So according to
research, right? Let's use the research.
It doesn't really matter what angle you
you press with it targets if you're
doing isolation, it targets all heads
equally. The angle of the humorris
changes the length of the long head of
the tricep. So if you do like overhead
pressing, you're targeting the long head
of the triceps in a more lengthened
position. And if you have your arm by
your side, such as like a cable press
down, you're targeting the long head of
the tricep in a shorter position. But
according to research, it makes no
difference in muscle hypertrophy. So
neither are better or worse. So what do
I do? Some phase I'll do arm up, so
putting a stretch on the long head of
the triceps. And some phases I'll do my
arms down, so doing a cable press down.
Neither are better or worse. they are
just different. But the other heads of
the triceps, it doesn't matter what
angle you're pressing on and even for
the compound movements, they are always
going to be on. But the biceps on the
other hand, now that's different. When I
say biceps, I'm not actually just
referring to biceps. I should actually
say elbow flexors because it's more than
just biceps. We have our biceps. So
those those muscles there, that's the
biceps. But our elbow flexor group,
we've got muscles underneath the bicep
called the brachiialis. And we've also
got the brachioraiialis here. And each
of those will be active to different
degrees depending on the angle which we
hold our hand. Let me explain. The bicep
attaches to the radius. Okay? So this
bone here. So the bicep flexes the elbow
and it also supenates the wrist. So
supenate means like hold a bowl of soup
in your hand. That's supernate and
that's pronate. So when you pronate your
wrist, you're relaxing the bicep. So if
you do exercises like hammer curls um or
or even reverse curls, the bicep is on
to a small degree but not that much. So
if you really want to target your
biceps, you want to create tension on
the muscle by supenating, right? So the
biggest thing the best thing you can do
for biceps development is supenate your
wrist. So that's what I'm doing with
this first exercise. I'll show you how I
do it. You know, I don't really go that
heavy for these exercises. I'm trying to
figure out the right angle so I've got
maximum tension on the bicep from start
to finish. Okay? But I'm supernating.
So, turning my wrist out, full range of
motion and up. Full range of motion and
up.
All
right. So, that's too light. That's okay
cuz it's a kind of a warm-up set. But I
still I don't want to do huge reps on
this. But the angle that I'm at, uh,
just so that you know, I'm kind of doing
this more like a bodybuilder rather than
a strength athlete. Strength athlete, I
want to push the heaviest weight from
point A to point B. What I'm doing here
is I'm going by feel on where I feel the
most tension. So up here there's really
not much tension from here to here. So
we're using we're working with gravity,
right? A better exercise would probably
be having a cable over there. Uh that
way there's constant tension through the
full range of motion. But right now I'm
kind of going through like even from
this position here, it's a lot of rest
at the bottom. So it's like where I'm
feeling the maximum tension. That's
where I'm working. All right. So um I
guess I'm playing that one by feel. Uh
that was 12 kg. I'll go heavier on the
next one. All right. Next up, we'll add
a little bit of weight on the scalp
press.
That was good. 15 reps of that is
probably on the higher side. I could
probably go heavier. My shoulder's in a
funny. It feels funny. So that's why
it's like hurting my shoulder to
unrackck from back here, which is why I
need a lot of help for the unrackck, but
and I thought that was going to be
problematic here, but it's actually
okay. Let's talk tricep exercises.
That's my favorite. If you've been
following me, you've probably seen me do
this exercise before. That's my
favorite, but I will tell you there's
not really it's like it's not that it's
better than other exercises. I feel like
it's the most loadable in terms of
tricep isolation exercises, but it's not
really better than, you know, like a
behind, you know, behind the back
overhead. It puts it that puts the long
head of the tricep at a greater stretch
kind of, but it doesn't make a huge
amount of difference for hypertrophy.
There's also the cable press downs,
which are comfortable, but I don't think
that they're as loadable. So, from a
strength standpoint, I think that's
better than the cable. The cable is a
great way to it's a lot easier. Pump up
the elbows, no problem. But objectively,
I think that one is probably superior
for strength and muscle building than a
cable press down.
I heard
close grip bench press is his favorite.
Yeah, close grip bench press. I think
it's a lot of people's favorite,
including one of my favorite. But what
do we know about the long head of the
tricep? It's a barticular muscle, which
means it crosses two joints, the
shoulder and the elbow. Alo performs
elbow extension and shoulder extension.
What did I say about compound exercises?
So for a press, a bench press, even a
close grip bench press, yes, it does put
huge load on the triceps, but the long
head of the tricep is performing
shoulder flexion and elbow extension,
which are conflicting actions of the
long head of the triceps. So yes, a
close grip bench press is great for
triceps, but not as good for the long
head of the triceps. So yes, include
them, but just understand you still need
to isolate. That's a compound exercise.
It's great to include, but you still
need to isolate if you want to be
hitting that long head of the triceps.
Now, you know, back to biceps. So, the
weight that I should be doing for this
is a little bit heavier than the
twelves. Let's go 15. Not that much
heavier.
All right. So, that's 15 kg. I'm not
sure if you noticed. I started with my
right side. So, my recommendation is
start with the weaker side. Isn't that
strange? I'm right-handed, but my right
bicep is weaker than my left. Don't know
why that is. It just is. But that's the
advice. So, whatever side is weaker,
start with that first. Um, now
objectively, so I just did 10 reps of
that. I can probably do a little bit
heavier. So, on the next set, I'm going
to bump it up to 17 1/2 kg and just do
one more set of that and one more set of
the triceps as well.
You said elbow, sorry, wrist position
makes a difference on the biceps.
So, okay. Okay, so get this right. So
the tricep the choice of exercises here.
I'm only doing one for the triceps. And
as I mentioned, like it's not really
that much better than other exercises,
but I do love it and that's what I'm
going to be working on for this phase.
The next the next phase I might do the
cable press down and that's going to be
completely fine. It's just hitting it
from a slightly different angle. But
when it comes to the biceps, well, I
keep on I say biceps because most people
say biceps, but it's elbow flexors. It's
not just biceps. So yes, that exercise
because I'm supernating, I am really
targeting the biceps, but there are
other muscles and actually I'm going to
include another exercise for the other
muscles and that's going to be a reverse
grip. The reason why I'm choosing a
reverse grip is that's going to switch
off the biceps to a degree. Switches off
the biceps, but something like, this is
a vanity thing, I think most men should
have big forearms. It's like one of
those muscles that if you have weak
forearms, it just looks [__] right? So
although it's uh you know turning off
the bicep, it's an elbow flexion
exercise, you are using the wrist
extensors to hold that weight up and
it's a great exercise for the muscles of
the forearm for the extensors of the
wrist. So I'm going to include that as
well. So just so that you know it turns
the biceps off and the muscle underneath
is the brachiialis. The brachiialis
isn't affected by supernation and
pronation because of the brachiialis the
the bicep attaches to the radius. So it
relaxes when you pronate and it
increases tension when you supernate. So
if you want to train the biceps,
supernate the wrist. But the brachiialis
attaches to the ulna. And when you
pronate and supernate, the na doesn't
move. So because the ulna doesn't move,
it doesn't change the orientation of the
brachiialis. It doesn't increase the
stretch or decrease the stretch when I
pronate and supernate. So the
brachiialis is actually always on. But
when we supernate, we've got help from
the bicep. When we pronate, we don't
have help from the bicep. So, it is more
targeted to the brachialis. So,
actually, which one's bigger? They both
kind of the same size. They both have
pretty similar cross-sectional area. So,
if you just target biceps without
brachiialis, you're doing yourself a
disservice. You don't see the
brachiialis as much, but the bigger that
gets, the higher the bicep will sit. So,
I think a combination of both is
probably the best way of getting more
complete arm development as well as
forearm development. So, that's going to
be my next exercise. How does that carry
over for strength?
You know, forearms, that's grip
strength. So, it's part of it. Grip
strength is specific and having strong
forearms or weak wrists. It's not really
uh hugely specific to powerlifters. But
for life, having strong wrists, you
know, for strength sports, sorry, for
non-strength sports, you know, martial
arts, rugby, things like that, having
weak weak wrists and weak forearms is
is a weak point. You don't want weak
points anywhere. So, strong forearms and
strong grip is pretty important. Not
hugely important for for powerlifting.
Of course, you need to grip a barbell
for a deadlift, but grip strength for a
deadlift is hugely specific. So, doing
like wrist extensor exercises, stuff
like that, it has a small strength
benefit for for grip strength for
deadlifting, but nothing beats actually
deadlifting for grip strength or
specificity for for grip strength for a
for a powerlifter. So, for me, for what
my purposes are, full disclaimer, it's
not really for strength. It's more for
aesthetics. I like having bigger forearm
muscles. They just look good. Yeah. I'm
going to do that next. I'm going to do
one more set on each.
[Applause]
Oh man,
that was a good set. That was my last
set of that. I'm going to do one more
set of dumbbell preacher curl and then
I'm going to do some reverse curls for
my brachialis and my forearms. I'm going
to do barbell for my reverse curls. I'm
going to use that same bar. A lot of the
times I would super set between the two,
but my triceps are a lot stronger than
my biceps. So, for me to superset, a lot
of people when I prescribe it on a
program, I do the same. So, I go skull
crusher with easy bar curls because it's
the same piece of equipment. But for me,
there's a big strength discrepancy. My
triceps are a lot stronger. I can't
bicep curl that.
So, I wait till I finish my tricep
extensions, my skull crushes or skull
press, whatever you want to call them,
and then I'll strip the weight and I'll
do my reverse curls with that. So, one
more set of the curls and then we move
on to the next exercise.
Ah,
it's pretty good. Like the What's pretty
good is that right, I'd say that was my
limit. The left one, I said it's
stronger, but not by much actually. That
that seems pretty pretty balanced, but
yeah, definitely my left is stronger.
Either way, good exercise. Next up,
we'll do some reverse curls.
Yeah, the pump is feeling unusually
nice. When I say unusual, it's cuz I
don't really train arms much, but I know
that I need to. Um, and guess what I've
decided? So, I did say that all you need
is one tricep exercise, and that's true,
but and I was going to stop, but I was
like, I'm going to do another bicep
exercise. So, I've got two choices. So,
the bicep exercise is reverse grip
curls. I can either go reverse grip
curls and sit there and wait and do
another set, or I can superset more
tricep exercises. So instead of the lazy
approach and just sitting there, I'm
just going to add a little bit more
tricep volume with a very easy exercise.
So that's the tricep extensions. Now,
when I do the tricep extensions first,
typically I can do the whole stack here.
I'm in a fatigue state, so maybe that'll
be hard. If it is, good. Good. This is
just for the pump. I'm not really going
to No, I'm not going to do a drop set.
You can. So drop sets. um they're not
really that much better, you know,
they're okay. It's a great way of adding
a little bit extra volume if you're
short on time, especially, you know, you
do a set. So, here, check this out. It's
a whole stack, you know. So, do a set
until that all fails and then, you know,
reduce the load by whatever percentage
and then keep on going and then reduce
the load again and then keep on going.
So, what's the idea of that? The idea of
that is to take the muscle to fail and
then and then fatigue the other smaller
muscle fibers. So it's basically the
when you take the muscle to fail, you're
getting the the biggest fibers first. So
So you fail all the you take all of the
type two muscle fibers. The type two are
the biggest ones. They're the the
strongest, most explosive and the the
biggest potential for hypertrophy. So
you fatigue all of those and then you
keep on going, keep on going. The idea
is to to fatigue all of the other fibers
that are left over. Now, the idea of
that is it's kind of like rubbish
volume, right? So, if you trained it
hard enough on the first set, all of the
good stuff is done. So, you know, you
get the law of diminishing returns. If
you keep on going with all the drop
sets, it's kind of like junk volumeish.
Uh, does it work a little bit? Is it
worth it? Maybe not. So, no, I'm not
going to do drop sets today because I'm
not short on time. I am taking my sweet
old time for this and it's not really
going to give me extra benefits. So, I'm
going to do uh the whole stack on set
one of this and see how I go.
Pretty easy.
Yeah, easy. But I failed. Well, that's
on rep. You know, the last couple of
reps I wasn't able to get that full
extension. Still did a little bit of
partial reps.
But that's I reckon it's a pretty
stimulating set. Probably just have to
do one more set of that and I'll do two
sets of the reverse curls. I'll give
myself a minute. So my recovery, if you
know when I did my heavy bench presses,
it's kind of like 8 to 10 minutes rest
between those big sets. But now that I'm
doing the smaller muscles, I don't need
to wait as long.
The recovery requirement for smaller
muscles is not as big. And also
performance doesn't matter as much when
it comes to hypertrophy.
it still matters. So you still want to
have some level of recovery so you get a
high quality set but not to the same
degree. Like earlier in my session I was
trying to do 200 kg bench press. I need
to be on but for these curls whatever it
is I think it's about 40 kg here.
If I fail so what? All right. Reverse
curl.
So check this
reverse grip. Right.
Couldn't
even get 10. They're fried. One more set
of each and then I'm done. Right. And
that's it. I'm going to keep on doing
that. So, that's a really great day for
me. That's my heavy bench. And instead
of so on my heavy bench press day, it's
a great way of kind of not having a huge
heavy session for everything. Heavy
bench press and the rest of it is just
going to be arm work, which absolutely
compliments all of my other stuff. But
it's a great way to kind of divide up
the session. So if I just did more heavy
stuff for the whole session, it's really
fatiguing, really hard to recover from.
But that's a great addition to my
training. And I'm going to be back again
next week. So hope you enjoyed that arm
session. If you want bigger arms, you
need to isolate it. You can't just rely
on the compound movements. Big bench
presses, yeah, they do develop your
triceps, but they leave the long head a
little bit undertrained. Same with your
rows and pull-ups and pull downs, yes,
they do. Your elbow flexes, but the
biceps don't get as much work. So, the
bicep, not just the whole elbow flexes,
the biceps don't get as much work
because it's a biotic muscle and you
need to isolate it. So, there's my
advice for today. I hope you enjoyed it.
Click like, subscribe, all that stuff.
And I'll see you guys next time.